For my final project, I've created a DNA sequence analyzer that can analyze both .fasta and .txt files containing DNA nucleotide sequences to look for any mutations or deletions. The user inputs a reference sequence and a sample sequence that will be analyzed in comparison, and the code will output the location of the mutation or deletion and what the nucleotide change is. The code will output to a results file to store the information.

I thoroughly enjoyed making this final project because it's my first glimpse into what a potential future in biostatistics and research could be like for me. I definitely had my struggles when making it. My main one was trying to make my deletion section of the code work. When a deletion was detected it would offset the rest of the sequences afterwards and make it so that everything else was considered a deletion. In order to fix this, I knew that if there were a deletion, then the sample nucleotide would have to be the same as the next ones in the reference sequence and so I had to work through that logic to make my code work. I also enjoyed working with some new libraries. I originally downloaded and imported biopython which I struggled with as I was importing it to the wrong terminal but I got it to work eventually. I didn't end up using it but it was a good learning process. Along with Biopython I downloaded and imported colorama to add some color into my text. It was fun to try but proved to be quite difficult to work with, atleast for me personally. The project was very good practice for learning formatting and definitely solidified how to evenly space and format an output text which will be very helpful in the future. It took a lot of research and reevaluating to make this project happen but I'm very happy with the outcome.

Link to youtube video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2oA_VmelPZg
